## 期末必考 ##
______
1. `Nicolaus Copernicus published his On the Revolution of the Heavenly Spheres in 1543 and died.`
2. What’s the difference between geocentric and heliocentric theory?
    `Summary:`
    1.Geocentric theory is described as the Earth being the center of the solar system while the heliocentric theory describes the Sun as being in the center.
    2.Geocentric theory proposes that all objects including the moon, sun, stars orbit around the Earth while the heliocentric theory proposes that all other objects including the Earth, moon, and stars move around the Sun.
    3.According to the geocentric theory, the stars rotate round the Earth while according to the heliocentric theory, the 
    4.Earth  rotates around its axis which gives an impression of moving stars.
    5.Geocentric theory states that the path of movement of the heavenly bodies is circular while the heliocentric theory states that the path of movement is elliptical.
    6. Geocentric model is said to have been since ancient times, because there is a people-centered thought, respected by religion, by Ptolemy's development and perfection.
    7. The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos. Copernicus perfected and adhered to his doctrine.
   
3. `four law`
    1. human law
        the actual laws by which different  human societies 
    2. divine law
        another expression of the eternal law , God has given us divine law the moral rules contained in the Bible and therefore directly from God-restates and clarifies natural law.
        
4.`Leipzig Debate`
    1. between Luther and John Eck, at Leipzig in 1519
    2. Luther believed that the power of the papacy(教皇权利) was limite。
    3. Eck believed that the successors of Peter , the bishops of Rome are made supreme over the church-supported by many theologians of the early church , the Church Father.
    
5. `Martin Luther`
    
